

               King's Quest V README file
               --------------------------


Slow machine notes
------------------

     Instead of the opening and closing cartoons, you may receive a
"slide show."   You will see the slide show if you are on a slow
machine, or if you have an MCGA type graphics adapter.  The
slide show contains no animation, and simply displays pictures
that go with the story.


      
            Installation procedure for Multimedia Windows (MPC)
            ---------------------------------------------------


From the CD (if no setup floppy is supplied with the game)
----------------------------------------------------------

   1. Insert the game CD into the CD-ROM drive.

   2. Invoke Windows in Standard or Enhanced mode.

   3. Select "Run..." from the "File" menu.

   4. Type "x:\setup" where "x" is the drive letter of your CD-ROM 
      drive.  Press Return or click "OK".

   5. The setup program will now run automatically.  It will suggest a 
      directory for installation but allow you to change it if you wish.
      It will ask whether you wish to output background music for a 
      base-level or for an extended synthesizer (see below).  It will 
      then set up a program group and program icon so that you may play
      the game. 



From the setup floppy (if it is supplied with the game)
-------------------------------------------------------

   1. Insert the game CD into the CD-ROM drive.

   2. Insert the Setup diskette into the A: drive (or B: drive).

   3. Invoke Windows.

   4. Select "Run..." from the "File" menu.

   5. Type "a:\setup" (or "b:\setup") and press Return or click "OK".

   6. The setup program will now run automatically.  It will suggest
      a directory for installation but allow you to change it if you
      wish.  It will ask you to enter the drive letter of your CD-ROM 
      drive. It will ask whether you wish to output background music
      for a base-level or for an extended synthesizer (see below).  
      It will then copy the required files to your hard disk and set
      up a program group and program icon so that you may play the game. 



                    To run the game
                    ---------------

   1. Insert the game CD into the CD-ROM drive.
   
   2. Invoke Windows.

   3. Double-click on the "Sierra" group if it is not already open.

   4. Double-click on the game icon.




      Notes on system configuration
      -----------------------------

Video display drivers
---------------------
     Under the Multimedia extensions to Windows, there are a number of 
video display drivers which may be used.  These may be examined and 
changed by selecting the "Display" icon in the control panel or by using
the Windows Setup program.  Sierra  games look best using a driver which 
is capable of displaying 256 colors at a resolution of 640x480 pixels 
(such as the Video 7 board with 512K memory), but will also run at lower 
resolutions and with fewer colors. Various board manufacturers will 
supply their own Windows drivers. When a Sierra game starts up under 
Windows, it examines the capabilities of the video driver you are using.  
If the game does not support that driver, it displays a box with the 
following message:

     "Your current display driver is not supported by this game.
      You can install a different driver by selecting the appropriate
      options from the control panel.  You may also exit Windows and
      install and play the game under DOS."

The title to the box will display the name of the driver you are using.


MIDI synthesizers
-----------------
     Multimedia Windows defines two types of synthesizers; 
"base-level" which includes three melodic channels and one
percussive channel, and "extended" which includes nine melodic
channels and one percussive channel.  The channel assignments
are 13 thru 16 for the former and 1 thru 10 for the latter.
You may configure the system depending upon the type of sound
equipment installed by using the MIDI Mapper in the control 
panel. Sierra's games can play music for either of these
configurations. The installation procedure allows you to
choose which is appropriate for your system. If you don't
know what type of synthesizer you have, just click on "OK"
to select the base-level synthesizer.  
     If you wish to change the synthesizer, you must re-install
the game and use the MIDI Mapper to change the channel assignments.
     If you encounter difficulties playing KQV CD on a PS-1, it may
be due to the music card selections.
     Should you encounter difficulties with your ProAudio Spectrum
playing KQV CD with Windows 3.1 please contact Media Vision to
determine the proper drivers to obtain. The wave driver (mvwave.drv)
for the ProAudio Spectrum that is supplied with Windows 3.0 with 
Multimedia extensions, works correctly with Windows 3.1 if Windows 3.1
is installed over Windows 3.0 with Multimedia extensions.


Memory usage
------------
     Your Windows installation guide contains suggestions for
optimizing memory usage.  Sierra has found that using non-Windows
memory managers such as QEMM may cause unpredictable results
including system crashes.
     A base-level MPC machine has sufficient memory to play
Sierra games. However, as additional applications are invoked,
less memory is available. At some point, one of the applications
will report an out-of-memory condition.  If a Sierra game runs
out of memory, you may see a message such as: "Out of hunk space",
after which the game will terminate.  To avoid this situation,
do not run numerous other applications concurrent with the game.


Windows modes
-------------
     Windows can be run in one of three modes: Real, Standard,
and Enhanced.  Sierra games will run in either Standard or Enhanced
mode, but not in Real mode.


Color rendering
---------------
     Because of certain limitations of the Windows environment,
Sierra games run under Windows do not have the full range of
colors available that they do when run under DOS.  The difference
is usually not noticeable, but you may occasionally see parts
of some pictures which are not true colors.  If you wish to
see the true colors, then play the game under DOS.


Screen savers
-------------
     The use of screen savers which use color (such as "Mystify"
which comes with the Multimedia extensions) will cause the game
colors to be inaccurate.

